# PseudoQURL

An experimental prototype for attention economy development.

The backend (server) uses Typescript, NodeJS and PostgreSQL.

The project supports (assumes?) the use of the excellent (and free) Visual Studio Code development tool,
and includes configuration files for that tool.

## Testing current prototype

To experiment, visit: [Test Prototype](https://pseudoqurl.herokuapp.com).

There you will be able download the plugin, and instructions are provided as to installing and running it.
Please note that this is currently a demo only.  No "real" currency (crypto or otherwise) is involved.  Also, once we move out of the prototype stage, the plugin will be made available through the official Google Play Store, and the current 
manual installation procedure will be removed.

## How it Works

If you have a page opened that you would like to invest in, open the extension popup screen with your
chosen tab selected, and choose the amount you wish to invest.  

If the URL of the page has not previously been Promoted by anyone - congratulations!  
You have first-mover advantage!  Simply set your investment amount and click on Promote.

If the url has already been Promoted by someone else, you will be offered the option to "Re-Promote" the
displayed PseudoQ URL, which promotes the displayed URL as opposed to the original URL itself.

In either the case, the effect of Promoting will be to create a PseudoQURL link url, which you can then copy
and forward to others as you see fit.  The system will itself automatically forward the created link to other contacts in your PseudoQ social graph.  
The generated link records the URL it was generated from as it's "parent link" - thus forming a chain of links back to the 
original content.

If you have already (re-)Promoted the content previously, the link you previously created will be displayed, 
and any investment you choose to make will simply be used to increase the balance in that link.

### Views

The amount you invested in the link will be used to make payments to other users who follow the link 
(ie. open the page). The viewer of the link will be paid 1 credit for providing their attention.  

If the link has a parent, that parent link will also get paid 1 credit, and so on back up the chain. So if a link
has four parents, each view will decrement the balance by 5, 1 going to the viewer, and 1 going to each of the four parent
links.

If the viewer wishes, she can choose to Re-Promote the link you sent them, thereby creating another link belonging to the viewer.  The newly created link will have your link as it's parent,  so that you will receive payment from any views generated by that link.

Once the balance in a link drops to zero, it will be automatically removed from the system 
(with any child links re-parented appropriately).

### Redeeming links

At any stage you can review all the links you currently have investments in, along with their current balances,
by clicking on the "Edit / View Settings" button in the extension popup.
From there you can also choose to "redeem" any such links, such that the balance will be transferred back into your account,
and the link removed.

## Build Dependencies

* [Git](https://git-scm.com/)
* [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/)

## Runtime Dependencies

* [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/)
* [Google Chrome](https://www.google.com/chrome/index.html)

## Installation

First, build the extension files:

```sh
$ git clone https://github.com/stephensong/pseudoqurl.git
$ cd qseudoqurl
$ npm install
$ npm run build
```

## Capuccino - Chrome Extension

The extension files will be generated into the `dist/capucchino` directory.  

To install:
* Open Chrome.
* Navigate to `chrome://extensions`.
* Enable **Developer mode** by clicking the checkbox in the upper-right hand corner.
* Click the **Load unpacked extension...** button.
* Navigate to the newly-created `dist/capucchino` directory and click **Select**.

For more information, see:

https://developer.chrome.com/extensions/getstarted#unpacked

## Server Installation

TODO:  Information on installing and running server (backend).  Heroku instructions too maybe?


